# IBM Wheelwriter "Teletype"
This project uses an STCmicro [STC15W4K32S4](https://www.stcmicro.com/datasheet/STC15W4K32S4-en.pdf) microcontroller (an Intel 8052-compatible MCU) to turn an IBM Wheelwriter Electronic Typewriter into a teletype-like device. This project only works on earlier Wheelwriter models, the ones that internally have two circuit boards: the Function Board and the Printer Board (Wheelwriter models 3, 5 and 6).

The ribbon cable that normally connects the Wheelwriter's Function and Printer boards is disconnected and the MCU is interposed instead between the two boards. The MCU uses one of its four UARTs to connect to the Wheelwriter's Function Board and a second UART to connect to the Printer Board. See the schematic for details.

In the default “typewriter" mode, the MCU transparently relays communications back and forth between the Function Board and the Printer Board and so the Wheelwriter acts as a normal typewriter. In “keyboard” mode, the MCU intercepts commands generated by the Function Board when keys are pressed, converts these commands into equivalent ASCII characters, and outputs the characters through the console serial port to the host computer. In “keyboard” mode the commands from the Function Board are not sent to the Printer Board, so no characters are printed when keys are pressed. In “printer” mode, ASCII characters sent from the host computer to the MCU through the console serial port  are converted into commands and sent to the Printer Board. Thus, in “printer” mode, the Wheelwriter acts as a serial printer or "teletype".

The object file (in Intel HEX format) is also provided for those who don't have access to the Keil C51 compiler.
